---
title: Piglet: Towards an Enlive-like Haskell Platform
tags: Haskell, Web, Templating
---
[Enlive](https://github.com/cgrand/enlive) is a Clojure web templating
library that combines vanilla HTML templates with backend
logic. It's a perfect separation of logic and frontend development in
that it does not require frontend developers to know anything about
the backend platform -- only pure knowledge of HTML (maybe JS, CSS) is
required.

<!--more-->

I'm working with a Haskell web project based on Snap. Snap's Heist
template is logic-free, but somehow it still requires some domain
specific knowledge of the Heist template. Moreover, the compiled
version of Heist template requires some more tweaks, making
collaboration a bit difficult.

I want to make a templating library that mimics Enlive in Haskell. It
reads HTML document and transforms to Blaze-html, which is believed to
be the
[fastest HTML generators](http://jaspervdj.be/blaze/benchmarks.html)
available up till today. What I want to do is to allow developers to
specify certain selectors and attach code snippets written in
Blaze-html DSL, just like the following (pseudo-)Haskell code:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{#mycode .haskell}
"#my-class" `embedContent` $ do
    forM posts $ \p ->
        li $ toHtml p
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

which does the following transformation:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{#mycode .html}
<ul class="my-class"></ul>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

to

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{#mycode .haskell}
\posts -> do
  ul $ do
    forM posts $ \p ->
        li $ toHtml p
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

What I have done so far, is creating the template library
[Piglet](https://github.com/kkspeed/piglet). Here is a quick look:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{#mycode .haskell}
import           Text.Html.PigLet
import qualified Text.Blaze.Html5 as H


page = defTemplate [] "hello.html" [
  D "title"             >@< embedContent [| H.toHtml "Hello Piggies!" |]
, A ("class", ["page"]) >@< updateAttr [| addAttr ("id", "page-wrapper") |]
]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I like these >@< symbols. It's like a cute pig looking at food!

The template is far from perfect. What I feel
right now is that the syntax is not quite clean as it requires
template Haskell quosiquotations. Also, the type signature is not
quite nice -- it's a mere Q Exp. I plan to hide it under the
hood. Also, currently, variables are referenced with string names,
which might look a bit clutter (altough it does not affect any runtime
efficiency).
